All right in this lecture we're going to dive into learning how to work with maps in our apps.
And we're going to start with just sort of the basic default want to get you introduced to everything
as we move forward here.
So let's go ahead and start a new Android studio project.
We're just going to go ahead and call this map fun go ahead and hit next.
Now it's really important that you have at least API 23 set up here you can go higher if you'd like
to but we've got to at least have API 23.
We'll go ahead and hit next now rather than just doing an empty activity we do want to select a Google
Maps activity so make sure you have that selected and will go ahead and hit finish.
So what this is going to do is it's going to set up a new project and get us a map inside of our app
so it's going to lay out for the map all set up it's also going to have a default location there sort
of pins so that when we open the map we can see what that looks like.
So it's going to kind of get us to a starting point if we wanted to use location stuff inside of our
app.
Now as part of this we're going to have to go connect and make an API key with Google Maps.
And so you're going to have to have a Google account for that so if you don't have a Google account
you know for like example YouTube Gmail whatever it is you're going to want to go ahead and get one
of those because we're going to need it for app.
And so as a matter of fact that's the very first file that opens up here it says hey before you can
do this you have to have your Google Maps API key and we need to go ahead and put it here where it says
your key here.
So basically what we've got to do is we've got to copy this link right here.
And come on an android studio is really not great at copying text.
That goes out long.
Or maybe I just have a slow computer.
I'm not sure but OK so we'll go ahead and copy that and open up Safari here paste that in.
So like I said you need a Google account so if you don't already have one you need to go ahead and sign
in with that.
But assuming that you do we're going to go ahead and say yes we want to create a new project and I don't
need to know about features and stuff like that.
I do agree to the terms.
So go ahead and create that.
Right so this is just taking a second here get all set up and enabling API and I'm glad that we were
able to walk through a little bit before we got here so now you know a little bit more about how that
works.
OK so now we've got this we need to create an API key.
Great.
We'll go ahead and do that and it gives us our API.
So we'll go ahead and copy this key and we'll go back to android studio and we're going to paste that
right inside.
All right.
And with that in place let's go ahead and get this running on our emulator to see what that looks like.
Now while we're waiting for that to get all set up and run I would like to show you a little bit about
what you can find in here so for example here inside of our uncreate might give you some space to work
with.
So we have our uncreate here I don't know why that's not going away.
There we go.
So basically what we have up here is we have a property called map.
This is the Google map that we're going to be seen on the screen.
And basically it's these two lines of code here that get the map all set up it's basically saying hey
you know I'm going to go grab this map I want to get it all set up and I want to do an async which basically
means I'm in the background.
I'm going to get this map all centered up ready to go stuff like that.
But you also see some interesting code down here where a marker is added to the apps.
Have you ever seen on the maps on phones before like there's a little red pin or a red dot kind of showing
a point of interest.
Well that's what this is is making a point of interest over Sydney which apparently is at negative 30
for 151 those are latitude longitude coordinates there and it's put some sort of name there to say a
marker in Sydney so that when you scroll over that that's what we have here and so it basically adds
this marker to map right which is our Google map and it moves the camera and the camera and it moves
sort of the zoom of the map to that position there.
OK.
So let's go ahead and see oh this won't run unless you update play services.
Great.
OK.
So I'm going to go ahead and run through the update stuff here but I'll come back once this is all ready
to go.
All right.
So the app finally opened up after I got all that Google Play services stuff there's a little note about
it here in the code that they Google left for us.
But look at this.
I mean we have a fully functional map that we can move around and look there's this little marker in
Australia and that's where the map was centered and if we tap on that it says marker in Sydney.
So notice that this is the same thing that we have from what we had down below here.
So for example if I say like I like all see Frye's from out back.
Well go ahead and run this.
And we should see like that you know text now showing up inside of her app.
So let's go ahead and see what this looks like.
It's so up opens up if we tap on that logo that.
I like Aussie fries overall you can see the connection between those two and how it all works up.
So you can really move anywhere you want if you'd like to zoom in you can simulate that by hitting on
the Mac.
The command and the shift key are let's see where.
Yes.
Command and shift key.
If you're on a Windows computer I believe it's control and shift but this allows you to you know effectively
do like a pinch or a zoom on your map here.
So anyways yes this is how you get it.
Now the other thing that I'd like to show you is also how you can just what the layout of this looks
like right like how did we get to this point.
So let's open up our activity underscore maps.
SML so you can just see what it is that we're working with and you'll see get this thing called a fragment.
That's a map.
And this is you know it's got the idea of maps and when we come back here this is how this is all connected
right.
Our That map when we did that find fragment by ID.
Well we didn't Android studio got it all set up for us but that's kind of how it's all connected so
it can feel a little bit funky looking nose for the first time because it's like whoa all this stuff
just magically happened.
But just to recap we got that Google API key here we pasted it in and then we got this to work.
Now one thing to note is that by default that Google Maps API key if we go ahead and look into this
a little bit more.
Right now it's restricted to only Android apps and for Android apps that use this particular package
name.
So we actually want to get rid of this and we'll hit save here to update.
I mean if you're going to push something to the you know Google Play store you would definitely want
to lock down your API key so that was only for there but for us we're going to be making a bunch of
different apps.
We'd like to just use the same key for all those so you know we'll keep the restriction saying hey this
should only go for Android apps I guess if we do that then we're going to have to add them so maybe
we'll just say none.
But the point is you know you're going to want to fix that if you're going to go live to the Android
store.
So hopefully that went well for you.
We're going to keep moving forward with maps.